The following videos showing you the integration between GNS3 and NPM are based on this how-to
guide, which you can get from the below links. This may be useful to you after you've attended the training.
So if you want to set up NPM and GNS3 refer back to this guide which contains a lot of information,
including how to install both GNS3 and NPM, how to create the initial topology.
The commands used on the routers, including commands such as setting up SNMP, setting up the IP addresses
and configuring EIGRP, I'll also include the commands on the routers, on the relevant video in this
training
but you may find the integration going to be of benefit to you for reference later.
In the next few videos, I'm going to show you how to build a topology within GNS3 that consists
of three routers connected via serial interfaces.
These are going to be the interfaces monitored by Network Performance Monitor. The three Cisco routers
are connected to a switch, which in turn is connected to NPM.
This is our out-of-band network management subnet.
You don't need a dedicated network for management, but in this example, that's the way we're going
to configure it. Now
in GNS3 there are multiple ways to set up your Cisco routers.
You can either run Cisco iOS routers directly within Windows using what's called the local server,
or you can use a virtual box VMS or VMware VMS.
It's up to you which method to use.
The recommendation is that if you are only going to have Cisco routers and other basic devices such
as the built-in Ethernet switches in GNS3 you can run GNS3 or locally on your local
windows, PC or Mac.
However, if you want to run more complex topologies using iOS layer 2 or other more complex setups,
then you're going to want to use the GNS3 VM.
Please refer to the GNS3 installation videos for more detail on how to set up and integrate
GNS3.
So in this example, I have a Windows 7 professional virtual machine running within a VMware workstation.
I've allocated 4 gig of RAM to the 64 bit operating system and I've allocated 2 calls.
So on the settings of a VMware workstation, you can see that 4 gig of RAM has been allocated.
At the moment, only one process has been allocated.
Now some recommendations from solar winds, you can run NPM on Windows 7, Windows 8.1
and Windows 10.
It suggested that you use 2 cores and 4 gigs of RAM as the bare minimum.
It is better, however, to use 8 giga ram and 4 cores, but as a bare minimum use 2 cores
and 4 gigs of RAM.
So in this example, I'm going to shut down my virtual machine and I'm going to increase the amount
of RAM and CPU so that it's a lot quicker when I do the demonstrations.
Now, that's obviously dependent on what you have available
on your PC, but I'll set it to use 4 processor cores and 8 gig of ram and I'll power on the virtual
machine again.
Now, something I always do, and this is up to you, but I always create snapshots
of my virtual machines in case something goes wrong.
So I've created a snapshot with, for example, a new install of Windows 7 with Chrome installed
and that's where I am at the moment.
Virtual machine is saying that I need to restart, so I'll do that here.
So what I'm simply doing here is getting Windows 7 ready so that I can install NPM.
You may also want to download Windows 2012, so as an example, you can download a VHD file and then
import that into a virtual box if you want to run NPM on Windows Server 2012.